(lively music)
(keyboard keys clacking)
In this section,
you're going to watch me convert a Java application
to Kotlin and the application I'm going to convert
is a text adventure game.
Now, if you don't know what a text adventure game is,
I think showing you will be easier than explaining it.
I've opened the IntelliJ project
that contains the text adventure game
and I'm going to go ahead and run the application.
Okay, so this game doesn't have a graphical user interface.
It's a text adventure game
and so, it outputs everything to the console
and it accepts input from the console.
So, when we run, we'll see a message
that says you are a complex junction.
A low hands and knees passage
from the north joins a higher crawl
from the east to make a walking passage going west.
There is also a large room above.
The air is damp here.
So, essentially you're getting a description
of where you are.
And then it says available exits are Q which stands for Quit
in this game,
U which is Up, E for East, N for North
and W for West and essentially the game is now waiting
for you to tell it which direction you wanna go in.
So, I'm gonna go up.
And now it say you're in a large room full of dusty rocks.
There is a big hole in the floor,
there are cracks everywhere
and a passage leading east
and now we have a different set of exits we can quit.
We can always quit
or we can go back down of course, since I went up.
That will just take us back
to where we were or we can go east,
so let's go east.
And it says you're in a dirty broken passage.
To the east is a crawl,
I think that should be, I'm not sure
why it just says crawl,
crawl space maybe.
To the west is a large passage.
Above you is a hole to another passage
and then we can choose where we wanna go
but I'll quit at this point
'cause I think you get the point.
And it says you are sitting in front
of a computer learning Java.
It says you are sitting in front of a computer learning Java
because Tim Buchalka uses this code
in his Java Masterclass.
So, if you've taken Tim's Java Masterclass,
you probably are gonna be familiar with the code
or at least you've seen it
and I am using the code with his permission,
so no worries there.
So, essentially, this is a game
that puts you into a location
and it describes the location
and then you tell it which directions to go.
Now, if you're my age and you used to play adventure games,
you'll know that they could do a lot more than that.
In some locations, you could pick things up
and you had an inventory,
so there were some puzzles et cetera.
I think when I played them,
there were two really popular ones.
There were the Zork ones
and there was also one based
on Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
that everybody seemed to wanna play
and if you're young and you're one of the gamers
who's only ever played a game
that has a graphical user interface,
well, these are games that we in the previous generation
used to play and of course,
you may be looking at this
and thinking how could that be fun?
They were a lot of fun 'cause it was what we had
and of course, in 20 years,
there'll be gamers looking back
at the games that we play now and saying
what terrible games, how could people play games
that are so limited and have such a crappy interface,
so it's just the way things go.
Progress marches on.
But this is a text adventure game.
So, now that you know what this game does,
let's take a look at the Java code
so that you can see how this game is coded
and also so that you can see the code
that I'm going to covert to Kotlin
and I'm going to go through the code quickly
because it is Java.
So, let me shut down the console
and the first thing I wanna point out
is that this game has two text files.
There are four here,
but it's actually only using the directions_big.txt
and the locations_big.txt files.
So, let's take a look at locations_big.txt
and you'll see that this file contains the information
for a location except for the potential exits.
So, it contains the description of the location
that we see in the console.
You'll remember that when we quit,
we saw you were sitting in front of computer learning Java.
Now, I happen to know
that this game always starts out at location 64
and we'll see that tin a minute,
so if we scroll down to location 64,
we'll see you're at a complex junction.
A low hands and knees passage et cetera,
and we saw that in the console
when we first fired up the game.
So, 64 is the location ID and every location has one.
So, the format of each line
in the locations_big.txt file is you have a location ID,
which is an int, followed by a comma
and then followed by the location description.
So, now let's take a look at the directions_big.txt file
and we'll see that this one is quite different.
Each line in the file contains information
for one direction and the format
is you have the location ID
and then you have the direction
and then you have the destination location ID,
so the way to read this is if you're at location one,
and you go west,
you will end up at location two.
If you're at location one,
and you go up, you will end up at location two.
and you go eat,
you will end up at location three, and on and on.
So, now that we know what the data looks like,
let's take a look at the code.
There are three classes in this application.
It's a small application
but it does more than print Hello, World.
But don't worry, if you love Hello, World,
we are gonna do that later on
because it wouldn't be a programming course
if we didn't have Hello, World in it.
So, let's start with the location class.
So, this is Location.java
and you'll see right up there com.timbuchalka
is the package.
So, this class stores the information for a location,
so we have the location ID
which is an int, we have a description
which is a string
and then we have a map that contains the exits.
It uses the letter for the location as the key,
so you'll remember back in directions.txt,
these are all the directions
and they're represented by the letters.
So, the letter is actually the key
and then it will have the destination location ID
as the value.
Now, you'll notice that in the constructor,
we're adding Q to every location,
so we're not cluttering up the directions_big.txt
by having a zero, a queued direction rather
for every single location
'cause that would just be wasteful.
I mean, if you hit Q,
it doesn't matter what location you're in,
you're going to quit.
So, we just add that and the location ID
for the quit location is zero
and if we go back to our locations_big.txt
and scroll to the top,
we'll see that location ID zero is you are sitting
in front of a computer learning Java.
So, the location.java file stores the location,
the information for a location.
And other than that, it doesn't do anything special.
You can add an exit and we'll see that in a minute.
So, now let's take a look at the locations class,
location with an S.
And this is the class that reads in the two data files.
Now, I'm not gonna bore with the details,
I'll just point out that we're using a scanner
to parse each line in the file.
First, we read the locations_big.txt file
and we create all the location instances.
So, right here we're reading in the location ID,
then we're reading in the description
and at that point, we're creating a location
and you'll notice that we're saying locations.put,
loc would be the location ID
and then there'll be the location instance
and locations, if we go to the top here,
is a map of integer and location.
Integer is the location ID
and then location would be the location instance.
So, after we've read all the locations
and we've created a location instance for each one
and put it into the locations map,
we then read the exits.
And we use the location.addExit method
to add the destination location
for each direction and if we go back to location.addExit,
you'll see that all we're doing is adding the exit
to the exits map up here.
Now if we go back to Locations,
you'll notice that all of this reading takes place
in a static initializer,
so the files are read in the first time the application uses
the Locations class.
So, all that's left now is to take a look
at the game logic and that's in Main.java.
So, right at the top of the file,
we assign a static variable in the Main class
with the locations Locations field
and we'll remember that that's the static map up here.
So, this locations map contains a map
of location IDs followed by location instances
and we're storing that into a location field
that's declared within the Main class
and this is the point where the static initializer
will be called.
So, essentially as soon as an instance of Main
is being created, the locations static initializer
will be run and the two data files are read in
and then at that point of course after that happens,
the JVM's gonna call the Main method
which contains the game logic.
So, the first thing we do is create a scanner
that's going to read user input from the console
and then we set the initial location to 64.
Remember, I said that I happen to know
that the game always starts at location 64 and this is why.
We could use a random number here
but we're just setting it to 64.
There are some versions of this code
that do use a random number
and then we have a deliberate infinite loop
and inside we read the description
for the current location,
so since location is set to 64,
the first location we read is going to be 64
and we get that location's description
and print it to the console.
Now, here we check for location ID zero
because that's quit and if the user wants to quit,
we break out of the loop.
The first time through of course,
we know it's not gonna be zero
because it's set to 64 and that's fine,
so we just don't break out of the loop.
But even if the location is zero,
we still wanna print the description
because we still want the line you are in front
of a computer learning Java,
we don't just want the game to quit
without printing anything.
So, if the location ID isn't zero,
we get the location's exits
and then we print them out,
so here's the available exits are
and then we loop through the exits
and we print them out
and then we wait here for the user to tell us
which direction they wanna go.
When we have the user input,
we check to see whether it's a valid direction,
so is the available exits are Q, N and W,
and they type Z, then this check will fail
and we'll print out you cannot go in that direction
and we'll loop back up, print out the description
of the current location again
and wait for them to give us another input.
If the direction they give us is valid,
then we go to the exits map
and we get the destination location,
so we go the exits here, that's set up here
and that is the current location's exits map
and so, we check that map
and we get the ID for the destination location,
so loc will now contain the destination location.
We loop back up
and we print the description for the new location they're at
and check for zero again
and rinse and repeat until we do get zero
because the user wants to quit.
So, that's it, straightforward,
but it's doing a little more than Hello, World.
So, in the next video,
what I'm going to do is I'm going to covert this application
from Java which you've now seen to Kotlin.
So, I'll see you in the next video.